So in the previous part we have successfully created the functionalities for adding song, finding the
song and adding the song to the playlist.
With the help of track numbers, we have set the playlist as a data structure called Link List and Important
Link List from the Java Library as well.
So removing the extra part from the import.
Now we have imported both added list and link list from the Java util package.
Now so that we have successfully created that to playlist function.
Let us see that what is happening.
So we have created an integer called index which is going to store track number minus one in the beginning
and inside the state when we are checking that if the index is greater than zero and this is called
and operator and it is a logical operator if you know the Java basics, you must have heard about logical
operators.
So if the index is greater than zero and index is less than the song size like suppose initially we
have a size of some set.
We know that we are using ArrayList, so the list is desirable, but there should be some size in the
beginning.
Like suppose the list is containing five zones.
So this is going to check that if the track number is greater than zero and the track number is less,
then like the index of the track is less than some size.
And this if statement is going to be a function even only when this both parties true.
Like if this is false and this is true, then it is going to return false and the loop will exit this
if statement.
And even if this is true and this is four, then again the same thing is going to happen.
So this safe will only be entered if both the parts are true.
One and one like true and true is only going to return true and then only.
This is going to check playlist dot n.
So if both of the things are true, then only the song is going to be added in the playlist and this
function is going to return true.
Otherwise, if any of these two is false, then the function will exit this statement.
Like before entering the statement, it will directly print this system dot dot print.
And this album does not have the song with track number and calling this object track number with the
help of plus symbol and the function will return false, of course.
So after checking like adding the songs to the playlist with the help of track number.
Now in the next part we are going to add songs to the playlist with the help of its title.
So initializing the function in the similar way public boolean add to playlist.
We already have a function called Add to playlist, but this time the argument is going to be a title
string title and let me copy this same thing for the playlist part.
As only the first argument is going to differ.
Now, if we are going to add songs with the help of title, we have to.
Like added with to checking if the title is same then only we will bother to hand the song.
The playlist if the title is not seen.
So check the song and if the song is present.
This not songs is used to call the song method.
From the above declaration inside the for loop, we are going to arrive.
Statement Check the song dot get title to get the title.
We have declared this get title in the song class in the song Java file and after getting the title
we are going to check that if this title equals the current title or not, so equals and you enter.
And the argument of equals is going to be the title of the song.
Yes.
Fair enough.
Now inside the statement if the song title equals title.
Then list should be added.
With the song.
Playlist, Dan.
Check the song like we have checked for the song and it can be added to the playlist.
It is not present already in the list and after which this boolean function is going to return through.
So return true is going to be the.
Part.
Good for this function.
Yes.
So we are here with this.
Now, if there is a if statement, then to counter this, if statement, we have to write l statement
like what will happen if this iff is not accessed, this f is not performed.
So we have to ssis out the same thing we have.
Like this song like track number was the above argument.
So in this part we are going to.
See Subtitle Plus.
And there is no such song in that.
There's.
No such song in the album.
Yes.
So we are here with both add to playlist methods.
So we have completed both had two playlist functions, one with the track number argument and the other
with the title argument.
So track number as the argument and title as argument are going to be the two part of the add to playlist
function.
So as far as I can see that we have successfully completed the song class by adding songs with title
and duration.
And yes, the song part is completed by adding the title and the duration.
Also, the album part is completed by adding.
Methods like functionalities for finding the songs like we have to list the song.
I hope you have gone through the introduction section, so we have to find the songs, add the songs,
list the songs and remove the songs.
So yes, we have completed everything inside the album plus also.
That does summarize this album class and then switch to the next part.
We have find song and song at the playlist two times and this is going to output that whether this song
is present in the playlist or not.
Now switching to the prototype section, we have created project.
We have created the song class, we have created the album class.
Now we are going to create the main class which is going to run the project like this main class is
responsible for.
Testing and running of the project.
Of the project music player playlist.
Whatever.
We say this.
So now we are going to create the main class.
Inside the saucy folder, of course.
So min dot java is going to be the name for the main class and here we are inside our main class.
Now we will start writing.
The query is inside the main class.
So let us initialize this main class with initializing a static void main function.
And the arguments are going to be string arcs.
Yes, it is going to be this way and the function is created for the main class.
Now inside this we are going to create like we have to play songs.
So firstly we have to add songs to the album.
So we have created the album class already, so adding artist songs to the album.
So suppose the first album is like album and.
This album is new, so we have to add the new keyboard and an album.
Inside that room.
Suppose that we wish to add some name for the album.
So the name is going to be like you can see that in suggestions.
It is asking for a string name, string artist and add a list of the songs.
So inside this album, object for this function, we are going to add a name artist and add a list,
of course.
So suppose the name for this album is Album One.
And the artist is is going to be inside the double.
So album one and the artist is.
Like our artist.
Second one is the artist.
And this artist is going to be this is a colon.
You have to select this thing from the suggestions only.
I missed the suggestion, so I am writing it manually.
So new album name is album one.
And for the artist section I have to check.
In the head.
So the songs are still pictures memory.
So yes, the artist should be Maroon five.
Yes.
So Maroon five is the artist who has sung these amazing songs.
I am going to read in my playlist.
So the album is created now inside the album.
We have to add ArrayList for the title of the song and duration of the song.
As that list of songs consists, the song and the song consist of a title and a duration.
Now we have created this album and to add songs to the album we are calling this album.
Object and add song is that this art song we have created in the album class?
I have talked about it that this sad song is going to add the song to the list only if the song is not
already present in the list.
In case if the song is already present in the list, it will throw an exception saying that stop, this
song is already present and the boolean function will return like this ad song was a boolean function
and it is going to return false like stop.
You can't add song to the list so add some.
I am selecting this and suppose the title of the song is.
Like the first song is supposed to stay.
And our duration.
Let's suppose it is 4.5 minutes.
It is a double decker type.
So, yes, now ending this and copying this three more times, we can copy it as many times as we want.
Number of songs can be in finite.
And we are using analysts and it allows us to add multiple data.
Now for the third song, I have to check.
Yes, it's memories.
Memories.
And the duration for this sub was 3.5 and for this supports 5.2.
So we have added three songs successfully.
Let's add one more song or better lyric.
So we have created the first album.
Now in the similar way, we have to create one more album so that the song has some variations, so
it is showing some error.
Let us try to see what the edit is.
So the syntax error tokens are misplaced.
Okay, so you.